We’re going to talk about money.
Now, the fact is,
we never beg for money.
But that’s not to say
that we can’t talk about money
in Jehovah’s organization
—the earthly part.
So it’s long standing;
there is a balance here.
Going back to The Watchtower,
a long time ago, it says:
“We have never considered it proper
to solicit money for the Lord’s cause,
“after the common custom
[referring to Christendom]; . . .
“It is our judgment that money raised
by the various begging devices
“in the name of our Lord is offensive,
“unacceptable to him,
“and does not bring his blessing
either upon the givers
or the work accomplished.”
So we do not need to be coerced into giving.
We gladly use our money
to support Kingdom activities.
So that stands to this day.
But we’d never want to come to the conclusion
that we can’t talk about money.
Money has to be discussed
in these last days in this system.
It “meets a response in all things.”
So I thought we’d take some thoughts
from the Kingdom  book:
three reasons why we’re willing
—so willing to give.
Some beautiful thoughts.
Well, the first one is connected
with “doing what is pleasing
in [Jehovah’s] eyes.”
And finding
the Second Corinthians reference here
is so crucial in helping people understand
that we don’t beg for money.
But, nonetheless, we have to talk
about it from time to time.
Here in the ninth chapter,
donations and such were being discussed.
And then this profound, inspired thought,
which is reflecting Jehovah’s thinking,
is in verse 7
—2 Corinthians 9:7:
“Let each one do
just as he is resolved in his heart,
“not grudgingly or under compulsion,
for God loves a cheerful giver.”
So there we have it.
We’re happy to give to Jehovah.
When needs arise,
and the organization
brings it to our attention
—for example, disasters and such
like the report we had at the annual meeting
about the increase in disasters—
millions of dollars of God’s Kingdom money
was used to help our brothers.
But when it comes to giving,
it’s an individual responsibility,
as the verse says,
“resolved in his heart [or her heart],
not grudgingly.”
And the footnote
addresses the word “reluctantly.”
So it’s not like we embarrass people
or beg them, saying:
“Look, you’re well-off.
Why aren’t you giving more?”
Well, that’s not their business;
that’s not our business.
We have to resolve it in our own heart.
So while we discuss money,
we never come across
like we’re putting people
—trying to get them
to even grudgingly give
just so we get the money.
That’s not this organization.
Of course, Christendom,
they are experts at begging for money.
So we love Jehovah.
We want to be
the kind of person that he loves.
And notice that beautiful expression:
“God loves a cheerful giver.”
One translation put it nicely:
“God loves people who love to give.”
And that’s true.
So we want Jehovah to love us.
So this money we might have
—whatever amount, depending
on our own personal circumstances—
we’re happy to give to Kingdom interests.
So that’s the first one:
We make these donations
because of our love for Jehovah.
Now this second one, this is interesting
—a heart-searching principle
found back in the Mosaic Law.
Turn to Deuteronomy chapter 16,
if you would, please.
In Deuteronomy 16,
you’ll see the connection.
While this applied to the Jews at that time,
you’ll see how it applies to us in our day.
We’re going to read verse 16
and then verse 17 of Deuteronomy 16.
“Three times a year,
“all your males should appear
before Jehovah your God
“in the place that he chooses:
“at the Festival of Unleavened Bread,
“the Festival of Weeks,
“and the Festival of Booths,
“[now notice,] and none of them
“should appear
before Jehovah empty-handed.
“The gift that each one brings
should be in proportion
to the blessing
that Jehovah your God has given you.”
So if you let that sink in,
this is what Jehovah wanted to be conveyed
to the Israelites
who would attend these festivals—“none.”
Now, he didn’t say,
‘If you’re well-off,
if you’ve had a great year
(as opposed to some that were poor).’
They still had issues back at that time,
even though it was Jehovah’s nation.
But he said:
‘None should appear empty-handed.’
So that takes in all of us,
whatever our circumstances are,
whether at Bethel or in the field.
Jehovah doesn’t approve
of us coming empty-handed.
What would help us
not to come empty-handed,
in this case,
back in Israel or in our time either?
Notice verse 17,
and this is a lot to think about:
“The gift that each one brings
should be in proportion
to the blessing
that Jehovah your God has given you.”
So there we have it.
You stop and reflect
that they were supposed to do that,
and we can do the same throughout the year.
Reflect on the blessings
that Jehovah God has given us.
You have to take time to do that;
you have to give that consideration.
“The gift that each one brings
should be in proportion to the blessing.”
So adding up these blessings,
then we’re happy to give
out of our material possessions.
So a profound thought there,
and something to reflect on
so that we don’t find ourselves
—when it comes to contributions
on a monthly basis or whatever—
empty-handed, perhaps thinking,
‘Well, I’m doing so much here and there.’
Well, money meets a response in all things,
and you have to take that into account,
even if we’re in the poor range.
Now, the third one
is connected with our love for Jesus.
Let’s turn to John chapter 14,
if you would, please
—John chapter 14.
We give and have voluntary contributions
because we love our Lord Jesus.
And notice what he stated here,
John 14:23:
“In answer Jesus said to him:
“‘If anyone loves me,
he will observe my word,
“‘and my Father will love him,
and we will come to him
and make our dwelling with him.’”
So appreciate how Jesus put it—“if.”
So it’s a responsibility
that falls on us individually.
But if we say we love Jesus
(we’re not like Christendom
with this proclamation
of their love for Jesus,
—they really don’t even know
the real Jesus, frankly,
until they get
an accurate knowledge of the truth),
if we’re in the truth
—dedicated, baptized servants of him—
if we really love him,
we’re going to observe his word.
Now, that means
not just carrying out the Kingdom work,
putting our time and energy into it,
it also means money.
We are willing to donate money
to support the worldwide work.
We’re not ashamed to admit
that it takes money
to have these things operate
—branches, supporting
all of the preaching work,
the Kingdom work,
and all these other initiatives
that we’ve had in recent years.
It takes money.
You can’t go to people
that you buy things from and say,
“Well, look,
this is a non-profit organization,”
trying to shame them, saying,
“Well, can you give it to me?”
No.
They want their money
and to be paid for the various things
that we have to use
to accomplish Jehovah’s work.
So something to keep in mind,
those three things:
Our love for Jehovah
—we want to do what’s pleasing to him.
We count our blessings from Jehovah.
Then, we have our love for Christ Jesus.
And we want to do whatever we can.
So how you do it
with the financial contributions,
that’s a personal decision,
and Jehovah dignifies us with that.
We never want to be shaming somebody
that we think should be doing thus and so.
That’s a personal matter.
But keep in mind, sometimes, if you are poor
—remember the widow.
So she didn’t come there
to the temple empty-handed.
She didn’t have much, but Jehovah loved her.
Jesus loved her for giving what she had.
So even when we’re poor,
we’re expected to give monetarily.
And it’s because we love Jehovah,
we love Jesus,
and we appreciate
all the blessings we receive
during the year and are grateful.